and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business
growth show delighted to be joined by
michael hansen today
michael's the founder and ceo over at
growth genie a consultancy that
empowers b2b sales teams to have more
meaningful conversations
and get in front of more of their ideal
customers michael
welcome to the show sir how's it going
mate oh good thanks a lot for inviting
me simon i appreciate the energy that
was put into my intro
no worries dude that's the the diet
pepsi just kicked in i reckon that the
caffeine levels are
high so we better get this done before
it starts fading so michael
we're gonna be talking all about why
salespeople
need to need to understand content and
um
why marketers need to understand sales
might sound a bit obscure might sound a
bit unusual for some
but i think that probably the best place
for us to start is by me um
putting you on the spot and saying isn't
marketing a marketer's job can't i just
pick up the phone and start selling to
customers as a sales rep
why the heck should i start thinking
like a marketer and why do i need to be
producing content
yeah i i think there's there's quite a
few reasons that i was passionate about
is topic one
my background is actually a mixture of
like content marketing and sales i've
kind of mixed between the two
um now i'm a business business founder
like yourself i have to do both so i
have to do marketing and i have to do
sales
more and more i just see there's a big
crossover between the two
so probably the most obvious example is
now
you're seeing a lot of sales reps at all
different levels sdrs a's vps of sales
directories of sales
putting out content regularly on
linkedin um
the way i do not just linkedin instagram
all kinds of different channels
and they're essentially creating almost
like inbound opportunities by posting
every day because especially if they're
selling to sales or marketing people
or ceos or founders who are spending a
lot of time on linkedin
they're seeing their posts they're
building credibility with them
and people buy from people right even if
you sell a software product
you're still buying from a person they
said an individual rep that you're
you're selling to there
so that's the main one and then uh
another thing is that
okay you mentioned calling right of
course calling is all about
um the voice even like a zoom call you
may be sharing a screen on something
and then the big thing is like what i
say
as part of like a sales cycle or a sales
cadence
is often just don't sell of course you
need to at some point sell your product
but in the middle of that send them
content that you think is going to be
very valuable to them so if i give you
an example
most of the sales leaders that i speak
to whether they're cross vps of sales vp
of marketing
they struggle with hiring they have a
lot of hires that fail that don't work
out
all there's a lot of trend so normally
as part of the sales cycle i say here
here are the top five traits that i look
for in salespeople
that may help you in the hiring process
that's nothing to do with what we do
that's like if i was selling recruitment
that would be related to what we do but
we don't recruit anyone but i just know
that that's something that's super
helpful to them
so that's just an example like share
content that's helpful to your buyer
and you'll build trust and then it
becomes much easier to sell to them
yeah yeah yeah so you mentioned a few
things there about creating content on
linkedin
creating inbound opportunities and that
kind of stuff and i don't want to dive
too much into linkedin content because
we've covered that in some previous
episodes
but to hit home i mean is there
and this is again putting on the spot a
bit is is there a balance we need to
strike um
as in if we've got business owners or
sales reps are perhaps tuning in and
they're thinking
i can cold call all day and i know i can
generate x amount of appointments or i
can
i can hit my existing customers and i
know i'm going to get referrals or i
know i'm going to get some business off
the back of that
where the heck should i bother with with
this creating content why do i need to
put content into my sales emails into
linkedin or to what other channels my
customers hang out
is is that going to be a good use of my
time or ultimately should i
already spend it on these tasks that i
know are going to bring business in
because that's what i've always done
so i think you can you can do a mixture
of things right
so you were talking about you know
calling people calling old customers but
you can
use that strategy we very much uh
preachers of like old school and
traditional rights we very much believe
in the power of cold calling which
some people think doesn't work anymore
and then we also believe in things like
you know linkedin
audio notes videos etc so i'll give you
an example of how to combine these two
you actually when we were catching up
before this you asked me like
how's business going where are you
getting your business from and then a
lot of how we get business is through
what i call
all bound which is essentially a
combination of inbound and outbound and
marketing and sales
so old post content on linkedin and if i
see that certain people are regularly
commenting
and liking on our posts and they fit our
ideal customer profile
either i'll cold call them or send their
profile to
someone on our team to cold call and
again that cold call is suddenly them a
warm call because they're like oh yeah
growth genie i know about you guys i've
been following michael's content
and it becomes a very easy conversation
to have so then suddenly a cold call is
a warm call it's not really a cold call
anymore
and there's tons of examples like this
and we we predominantly work with with
sdrs or a's sourcing their own deals
like helping them to
to get meetings at the top of the funnel
and often what you see on the flip side
is like outbound leads to inbound right
so an sdr can send lots of emails or
links in messages
and then the person doesn't want to
reply but they're like oh this is
interesting i'm going to take a look
around their website
and then they come in as an inbound lead
so you've got outbound leads to inbound
and inbound leads to outbound so i think
this kind of all-bound
thing is really the way to go at the
moment yeah yeah that makes sense and
to to get back to the the concept of the
show
so um we've covered a little bit about
why salespeople should start
thinking more of a marketing approach in
terms of putting out this content that's
perhaps helpful
to their ideal buyer profile um what
about on the marketing side of things
is there anything that marketers can
take from from us measly sales
professionals
yeah definitely so when marketing puts
out content
and this will be controversial probably
there's some marketers because they
won't
always love a controversial one they
won't have realized this yet
when you send the sales team content
especially if you have a lot of content
yeah 90 of the content they won't read
um and you can't expect them to it would
take them like days right
and they've they've got a job to do
they've got to close deals they've got
to book meetings
so what i recommend is for all of your
content say you have an ebook
take like three of the most powerful
stats from that ebook
or pre three of the most powerful facts
and then put the say of some kind of
content library
associate them with that piece of
content and then when someone's reaching
out to someone
like when we do an outbound email for
example we don't
give people the content we create
curiosity about it right
so we have a sales play but template we
know people that likes but rather than
saying
here's the seller's top play but
template we think it'd be interesting we
say
we have a sales player template you can
use to onboard new sdrs
would you be interested in receiving a
copy and then at that point they've got
to reply to you so if you can
give little teasers of things that are
part of your content that helps create a
conversation so that's what marketers
can do
is essentially give those little
snippets of long-form content like take
this podcast for example
if someone had no idea who you were or
who i was they probably wouldn't listen
to this whole podcast
but they may listen to like a you know
one minute video so
all marketers should be thinking what's
the like micro content
out of the macro content that the sales
team can use
yeah yeah yeah yeah i don't know if
that's saying people much about sales
people they've got really short memories
or they can't remember much we should
just spoon feed them tiny little bits
or if it's saying that marketing need to
do a better job of not giving
salespeople massive guides
and just giving us manageable content
because the end of the day like you said
no one wants to read a wall of text
whether that's in a linkedin post
whether it's an email whether it's a 10
minute video whatever
so it sounds like getting it into short
sharp
punchy messages outreaches is that the
the kind of line that we're talking
about
yeah exactly i think you know i think
the longer i always say
as you go down the sales funnel you're
like content going to get longer longer
because once you've got
established trust with someone they're
going to be more willing to be like
hey sam i i trust sam and okay this is a
10-page guide but i'll read the 10 page
drivers if you didn't know you was like
i should read this 10 page guide from
someone i've never met met before
so it's kind of like as you build trust
with your buyer you can have longer
pieces of content
but certainly at the start and it's like
with cold emails right
our successful emails for us and for our
clients they're like super short
like two or three sentences and that's
what we're seeing success with because
people are so busy nowadays they see an
email from someone they don't know
and it's got loads of text even if it's
like the best email ever they're just
gonna delete it
and we'll get into that in a sec we'll
talk a little bit about how to
personalize these these forms of
outreach whether it's email whether it's
linkedin message or search
just curious before we do dive into that
michael so you mentioned earlier in the
show
um you like to yourself or other people
on your team like to outreach
to people that are perhaps engaged on
your posts that have um
maybe i don't know commented liked it or
enjoyed what you've posted and they fit
your ideal client profile
are there any tips that you could share
with us on what
what's working for you right now in
terms of how you
how you do that outreach what what that
actually looks like
yeah this is a good question so always
like relate it back to the post right so
if they've given a comment about
something
they've given some kind of opinion so
they've got an opinion and you can
always have a conversation around
opinions right so
frank's a really good tactic that we're
using at the moment is
um linkedin polls and not just linkedin
polls to get
find out about our buyers but also then
a step after to actually engage them in
a conversation right
so i've done a couple of links in polls
recently i can give you examples of like
should sales or customer success uh own
like renewals
and we've actually recently started
working with like customer success teams
because there's a big
push for customer success to do more
sales if someone
then answers like customer success we
can give them a call
call the cro say they're in the customer
success team and hey i noticed in
michael's poll that you said uh customer
success owns renewals like
how's that process at your company and
then it's it's a warm call because
you've already got some information
about them
yes essentially just because they've
liked and commented on your post
doesn't mean you can just kind of go
into some big pitch right
use that use what they've liked and
commented on and start a conversation
related to that
and then it just becomes a very easy
conversation
yeah so it's more like starting posing a
question
around the piece of content they've
engaged in and and going from there
really
not not just dumping a pitch on them
yeah and also
the other thing is why would like the
polls as polls you're actually good to
find out the challenges
of your buyers um so we did we did one
last year like what's your biggest
outbound sales challenge right now super
relevant to our business
and then you know we'd like i think we
had like 100 responses but from those it
was
all these are the biggest challenges
they're facing and one of the most
difficult parts of being an sdr doing
like cold outbound
is you have to assume what the
challenges are of your buyers because
you may have like five typical
challenges that you hear
and you kind of gotta focus on one or
two of them you can't like write all of
them because you want those short emails
so if someone's literally proactively
told you what their challenge is
you can lead your call with that you can
lead hey i see that um you know training
and onboarding your sdr team is is a
difficulty for you at the moment like
what does that process look like
so it's just using that information that
they've given you on linkedin to like
make the call a bit more warm
that is a really really good actionable
example
um of how to get not only free data
but how to potentially get some warm
leads as well um
so i'm sure a few people that have put
that problem are probably open to a
conversation around it
if you uh if you get some good feedback
so that's that's a really interesting
interesting thing that i'll probably try
and i'm sure people tuning in should
probably give a go if you if you need
some some warm leads to hit up pretty
fast
cool so moving this forward um
so we've talked a little bit about uh
the structure of kind of marketing
themselves how they can work together on
this looking at other forms of outreach
whether that is
kind of linked in whether that's email
whether that's video whether it's
another channel
how can we utilize personalization
how can we what are some examples that
perhaps working for yourself or your
clients michael in terms of weaving in
content or even
personalization to
not just make it your typical like we
say a long long form pitch
to make sure we're actually helping our
prospects our buyers
and showing that we're perhaps an
authority in our space and
and drumming up new appointments or demo
requests whatever we're trying to do as
part of uh
growing our business yeah i think the
personalization thing you don't need to
go overboard
i've seen a rule of like three i even
think just what if you can get one
thing personalization relevant to them
scan their linkedin
if some people will also you may reach
out to certain buyers like we get this a
lot and they're not active on linkedin
you may be like we've got a client that
sells to data scientists and often
they're not posting too much on linkedin
so at that point you don't want to go
for more of like a company approach
you're researching a company and you can
always get information about a company
whether that's a report whether that's
web their website
you may be able to look at their case
studies see what customers they're
they're already working with
right and then the key with
personalization because i see this is a
lot of people
don't tie their personalization into
some kind of like business relevance
so you can't if i was to target you and
say hey you know i i was listening to
your business growth showing that the
episode of michael hansen
and then they went into some pitch which
is like completely unrelated to it
you'd just be like that person is just
saying that to sell me something
and people can tell when you're being
genuine or not whereas if i
if i just think of an example off the
top of my head if i was to reach out to
you i'd be like
hey sam listen to your business growth
show i i see you're getting quite good
engagement
how are you turning like the hundreds of
listeners into actual like pipeline how
are you making that engagement right so
that's more like a a genuine thing and
you're connecting the dots because
that's what i see there's this big hype
about personalization at the moment
if you don't connect the dots then all
that research is just a waste of time
yeah yeah yeah it's it's a funny one i
mean you got you just need to log in
on to linkedin and then i don't know
about you michael but i probably get
about
between five and ten bots every day that
message me with things like sam i can
see you work at webchoice
now here's a ten page essay on the pitch
on why you should buy with me
um so that's obviously not
personalization that's just a bot that's
automating
they can see what company i'm at and
then they're just putting a massive
pitch
um so yeah stirring away from that
and and getting an actual business case
and is that something that
i just go ask is that something that
typically takes a lot of time and a lot
of research to to do
or is there kind of quick quick ways we
can get to that
yeah i think you shouldn't spend longer
than like five or ten minutes on it
um so i look at you either like research
on a personal level
right so find something on their
linkedin but again you can research on a
company level
and examine their company or it can be
an industry level right we have a lot of
case studies and companies that are
actually writing like
automated emails and there's a big thing
about personalization versus automation
a lot of people like never write
automated emails
but it all starts with your list right
so if you find
uh companies in a specific niche so we
were reaching out to like
food conglomerates for a client um in
like go who were having ghost kitchens
looking for sites for ghost kitchen it
was quite a niche audience we just
talked about ghost kitchens specifically
for that and data science
and it worked really well even though it
was like an automated message and we've
got really
good response rates and automated emails
before so essentially just i think
everything starts with your list so i
always i always recommend that as well
as like
try and create a niche list to try and
create a list of like 100 people
who you all know have a very similar
like niche problem
yes it's like you know spray and pray
like i'm just going to email 3 000
people with like a one-size-fits-all
message
yeah okay and then thinking about the
the kind of content that we should be
sharing so i mean obviously this is
going to be this is going to vary
depending on what industry we're in what
sector we're in
so it's a bit of an open-ended question
is there
specific type stages of our outreach
where we should be
and you hinted at a bit earlier and with
kind of chopping up marketing content
where we should be sharing bits of
content whether it's on the initial
email or the digital we found i.e we've
got our
prospect list we've done an issue
outreach should we be sharing like a
blog
or a video piece or something like that
that's useful or does that come later
along the line once they've perhaps
bitten and shown a bit of interest
then we try to nurture them with content
or are we sharing content at all stages
of
of the funnel yeah all stages of the
funnel so
oh there's different stages um different
content for different stages i actually
start at the bottom of the funnel right
because this is actually where i see
the biggest area of opportunity because
i think sdr is more and more
understanding they need to
have content you know we're living in
this area of like digital marketing
everyone working from home
but a's have a very rigid process sdr's
don't say
is normally have they have like a
discovery called then they have a demo
then they have an implementation call
and because they've got so many calls
planned out normally what they think is
i've got that next step in the diary
i don't need to contact the person like
in between and that's a real bad mistake
because you can build credibility with
that person like i said
send them content that's really valuable
that's going to be useful to them like
we have a client that's a proposal
software
and i've been getting their a and
they've got a really good report which
is best practices for proposals and all
their clients are obviously sending out
proposals
so even before they start working with
them send them like
information about like if you include
video in your proposal
your close rate goes up by by 40 right
so
that's educating them and even before
they start working together that's
something their team can implement
so from an ae perspective like between
your calls
send that educational content um and
then like from an sdr perspective
uh like i said normally we have a bit of
content that we think is of interest
we give a little teaser hey we got a
report that says like if i just give you
that example you know if you put videos
in your proposals
you'd increase close rates by 40 like
would you be interested in seeing more
stats like this and then they have to
reply yes and you start a conversation
so i think yeah
at any stage of the buyer's cycle like
educational content is always going to
help win trust
and i guess it helps in a few other ways
as well like um
as as businesses as sales reps we know
that every now and then we're going to
get people that cancel
um or that go elsewhere or they change
their mind i suppose if we're feeding
them
pieces of content whether it is articles
videos whatever that may be
that is genuinely useful that we've set
out that is going to help them get the
job done better then it
is probably building up a bit more trust
with them as well right so it's saying
this this is not just another sales
person or business owner that wants to
ram this product down when i can get my
cash
they actually do want to help me because
they're sending me stuff that's learned
more
learning more about this project about
how i can get it done giving me tips and
kind of positions you more of an
authority in your space
rather than perhaps the other two or
three vendors you're maybe going up
against
that aren't doing it yeah
yeah 100 another thing i didn't mention
as well um
is commenting on people's posts so if
you're
putting out content on linkedin again if
i was to target you sam
i would give my opinion like a comment
on one of your posts one people
appreciate that because the linkedin
algorithm is mainly about comments so
you get lots of comments you get a lot
more reach
and yeah it's establishing trust and
i've had so many deals like at the
bottom of the funnel
and they're like ghosting me which often
happens is like uh if you put on your ae
hat
and i may be sending five six messages
nothing i comment on their linkedin post
and suddenly they get back to me and
like i haven't forgot about you i'm
gonna sign the contract tomorrow
yeah it's funny how people work it's
very very funny how these things work
what i've
tend to do as well is sometimes just
like you
i i've got a habit of whenever a lead
comes in doesn't matter what the source
is whether it's for our website for an
ad
through linkedin i'll also a referral
i'll always add them on linkedin
and then that way you know that as long
as you are putting content which we've
talked about on this and many other
episodes and if you want to learn about
putting out content do check out
episodes like daniel disney justin welsh
we've had plenty of others
um and then perhaps you forget you've
added them and
you're putting out content that's
relevant as long as you're putting out
content that's relevant to your industry
and sharing kind of best practices tips
they might reach back out to you and
i've had many times where i've literally
forgotten i cannot connect with this
person or forgotten i've talked to them
they said
sam we spoke about this like six months
ago i'd like to pick up on it
um because you guys they're getting in
front of them every day or sharing stuff
that's actually
useful um so it's it's interesting how
how these things can work in in funny
ways
um so we've talked about
kind of what salespeople business owners
can do themself are there any other ways
that we should be working together
perhaps with our marketing departments
to make sure we're getting the best of
both worlds so we're not perhaps spent
wasting our own time too much on
creating content so perhaps
and we touched on this a little bit
earlier taking some of the stuff that's
already there
or repurposing stuff that's already
there so ultimately we need we need to
need to keep sales we need to keep
revenue coming in so striking that
balance between making best use of our
time
but also keeping conversations going
yeah so i really recommend
every company have like a call recording
software and that's not just for the
sales team which is obviously the
immediate thing right because as a sales
manager i want to be able to coach my
reps and listen to their demos listen to
their cold calls
but it also really helps from a
marketing perspective
because the reason is is your sales team
are on the front line with customers
and they're doing discovery calls
they're asking you about pains so the
most common challenges and pains that
you're hearing those are things that
your marketing team should be writing
content around
and then these call recording software
so i can give you two examples like
refract or gong
they have an ability from a sales
perspective as well as like i could take
a two minute clip
and then send that to the marketing team
and be like this is gold
this is what i'm hearing like every call
i'm having in the last two months they
talk about this challenge
we need to make content around it so you
need that that's the technology
technological piece but you also need
that feedback so you should be having
like
meetings between marketing and sales and
marketing and saying to the sales team
what are you hearing at the moment what
are customers talking about because
that's the stuff you should be writing
content about
definitely literally taking the words
from your customer's mouth
it sounds like um because these are the
the things that the sales people here
each and every day
and then there's so many advantages to
that right because
it not only helps from educating your
customers but
being seo like what we do at web choices
a lot of people are actually searching
for these kind of things in google like
how to do x best ways to do zed or i've
got issues with why
um so it helps from a ranking
perspective to get you
more inbound which is going to help your
sales team it helps you
if you've got customers that are perhaps
asking you these questions then you can
just direct them to this content
and then i suppose it helps top a funnel
as well in your outreach
because you've got this content produced
and through various forms whether it is
kind of articles linkedin posts videos
infographics whatever you can you can
feed them um
so it sounds like it's just kind of
working together to to get that content
out and distribute
yeah 100 cool cool um
so with that all said are there any any
other things that we need to bear in
mind
um as as sales perhaps as business
owners in terms of
kind of putting this all into play are
there any other tips we should bear in
mind before we start
doing outreach before we spend time on
on putting together different pieces of
content
um before we look at doing
personalization before we try to put all
the pieces
of the puzzle together are there any
other kind of tips we need to pick up on
before we start trying to put this into
action yes the most basic thing that
people often forget about which is like
who are we targeting it who's the ideal
customer
what's the like segment we're going
after because whether that's marketing
creating content
i've seen marketing creating content and
they're not even thinking about
who's going to be the person reading
this content right and then on the other
side like
sales when you're an sdr or an au
prospecting
the list right who's in the list like i
want to get really niche into a list so
we
we talk about a thing called triggers so
trigger in our case is we know that if a
company is
hiring a sales manager or or if they're
hiring bdrs
they may need our help so if they're
hiring a sales manager there's some kind
of management gap there
and if they're hiring uh bdr's those
bdrs need help with
like training onboarding so we know
they're a really good good fit for us
um we also work with uh with a lot of
outsourcers because they have like tons
of sdrs because they're sales
outsourcers and as they're growing
we know like processes can collapse
that's another trigger
like company growth outsources so think
about those triggers that your companies
like we work with a lot of software
clients and we know that
um if they integrate with certain
softwares and other companies are using
those softwares
that's another good trigger right and
there's all these different data sources
you can use nowadays to get this
information
so think about those triggers in
addition to the industry the job title
you're targeting
what are some layers on top of that that
make a company a good fit for your
services
yeah yeah yeah so there's essentially
different ways we can find out
when people tick certain boxes that
might fall within
kind of needing our service and offering
um
awesome dude i'm definitely gonna gonna
take away that that pole tip you linked
to the
um you mentioned at the start in terms
of kind of finding out problems finding
out pains
and then reaching out potentially to
warm leads that feel the criteria need
so michael with that i want to thank you
very much for for coming on the show sir
and um please do tell us more about how
everyone tuning in
can learn from you a bit more about your
business and the best way for
people to reach out to you yeah i know
as i said earlier pleasure to to be his
salmon
uh yeah linkedin i'm very active we
obviously got speaking on linkedin term
um so if you put michael hansen uh
growth genie on linkedin i should come
up
uh also feel free to email me it's m
hanson
growth genie dot co uh unfortunately i
couldn't get dot com domain it was
already taken so that's why it's got dot
co and uh
yeah in terms of what we do um we're
we're a consultancy that empowers b2b
sales teams to have better conversations
get in front of more of their ideal
customers
um we work with a lot of sdr teams and
also a
teams that are doing a lot of their
their own outbound prospecting
um and we often act as kind of uh
a virtual bdr um sdr and outbound
manager an enabler
um so we're in a position where you're
thinking about hiring a bdr manager an
outbound manager
um probably worth giving us a call or
contacting me on linkedin
nice one michael thanks once again
really appreciate you coming on
sam no worries and all those links to to
find out more about michael and his
company will be over and the episode
notes at businessgrowth.marketing
and if you enjoy the show be sure to hit
subscribe wherever the heck you get your
podcast from the business growth
show we interview business dealers each
and every week to provide actual tips
across marketing
sales all with the growth to help you
grow your revenue and grow your business
and we'll catch you on the next episode